gsdownload
==========

Is a commandline tool, which downloads the pdf document referenced in a
given bibtex file.

Synopsis
--------
```bash
ruby gsdownload.rb [OPTIONS] [FILE]+
ruby gsdownload.rb -h
ruby gsdownload.rb -V
```

Description
-----------
Downloads all referenced pdf documents in a given bibtex file and 
producess an annotated bibtex file via STDOUT. This program uses the 
howpublished links in each bibtex entry which must be of the form:
```
howpublished = {\\url{LINK}}
```
The tool not only downloads the pdf documents, but also emits
modified bibtex entries containing an additional reference to the file
if it could be accessed.

This tool works best together with bibtex files generated by gsresearch,
because it contains all the necessary information.

Please note, this program currently only grabs pdfs from [IEEE](http://ieee.org), 
[ACM](http://acm.org), [Springer](http://springer.com) and [ScienceDirect](http://sciencedirect.com).
In order to extend this program to support new sites, you may edit the **gsdownload-modules.rb**.

Disclaimer
---------- 
Please note that you should not use this script in jurisdictions,
where automated use of publishers is prohibited (almost everywhere).
Please read the respective Terms of Service of the various publishers
(currently, Springer, ACM, IEEE and ScienceDirect) for more information.

Options
-------

Arguments       | Function
:--------------:|------------------------------------------------------
 -v             |produces verbose output.
 -V             |Shows the version number.
 -h             |Show this document.
 -dDIRECTORY    |All files are downloaded to the given directory.
 -tDIRECTORY    |All file references created within a bibtex file assume that the file is located in this directory.

Usage
-----
To show this documentation.
```bash
 ruby gsdownload.rb -h
```
To show the version number, use:
```bash
 ruby gsdownload.rb -V
```
To try to download every pdf document referenced in **paper.bib** 
in the current directory and save the resulting annotated bibtex 
entries into the **withfiles.bib** file, use the following command
```bash
 ruby gsdownload.rb paper.bib 1> withfiles.bib
```
Download every pdf document into the **downloads** folder and emit 
the **withfiles.bib** file to the **library** folder.
The following command makes sure, that the various file links
work as intended.
```bash
$> ls -1
downloads/
library/
paper.bib
...
$> ruby gsdownload.rb -ddownloads -t../downloads paper.bib 1> withfiles.bib
```

